skip to main content

	
	
	    MetaFilter
	    AskMeFi
	    Projects
	    Music
	    Jobs
	    Podcast
	    IRL
	    MetaTalk
	 
	
	September 13, 2012 11:49 AM 
	
	
	 
	      Home
	      FAQ
	      Archives
	      Tags
	      Popular
		Best Of
	      Random
	 
	
	 
	 New Question
	    My Profile
	    Preferences
	    Recent Activity
	    Favorites
	 
	
	welcome back  |  | logout








Tags:

men
dancing
sex
immature


		
    



			




Am I a silly prude or is my boyfriend's dancing inappropriate?
September 13, 2012 1:28 AM    Subscribe
Am I a silly prude or is my boyfriend's dancing inappropriate?



 I enjoy dancing at clubs.  When I began dating my boyfriend more than a year ago, I was happy to find out he does too.  It was great to discover his friends like to go dancing as well, and everyone goes out together every few months or so.  All the friends are securely long-married to each other (as couples), all have children.  My boyfriend has never been married.  For the first time on this past occasion, I saw my boyfriend doing some serious heavy grinding (dirty, clothed full-contact dancing involving hands in intimate places) with two of the married female friends at separate times during the evening.  Not once did he do that with me.  

I was unhappy and afterward said I thought his behavior was inappropriate and that he hadn't paid attention to me.  I think that type of dancing is something you do anticipating naked sexual contact or at the very least, getting a stranger’s phone number.  My statement wasn’t judgmental or particularly jealous.  He blew up immediately.  He accused me of trying to change him, of not accepting him.  He says his friends, whom he’s known for 20+ years, all dance like this with each other and it’s a way of goofing off in a safe, controlled environment where nothing will happen.  He said I should dance like this with his friends too.  This idea is uncomfortable to me and it can create awkward situations.  I would never dance like that with my friends and wouldn’t want them to do it with him.  It certainly didn’t look like goofing off to me.

Anyway, he finally apologized but with the caveat that I was making a big deal about nothing.  He didn't say he wouldn’t do it again, and wasn’t willing to compromise on it.  He says he loves me and wants me to stay, but I kinda doubt love because it seems like he’d care about my feelings a little more.  Our sex life is already lacking in quantity and quality so it hurts even more he’d act like this with other women.  But he won’t admit he’s bored with me.

My question is, am I being prudish?  I'm not really concerned that people will cheat on each other, but that it reflects on the state of our relationship and his unwillingness to work with me.  He seems a mite immature, and perhaps he has warped my mind over this year, but could this be a symptom of worse to come?  Should I break it off?  

He is 40, I am 34.  I was married for 10 years and think I know what naughty looks like.  Neither of us are in our 20s, which would seem more likely given this dance-club conflict…

posted by AnnaAnachronous to human relations (46 answers total)     
[add to favorites]
 1 user marked this as a favorite
[!] No other comments.



I think you need to trust your gut instinct here. The you should dance like that too and all his friends do it, meh. No, you're not being prudish, I'd have a hard time seeing my man do this with other women too. It speaks of immaturity when a dude goes all lowdown with other women in front of you, and not with you, and then tells you it's okay, you need to do it too. Blech.posted by Marie Mon Dieu at 1:34 AM  on September 13 
	[17 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

DTMF. I mean, why not? He "blows up" at you and the sex isn't even good.posted by crabintheocean at 1:34 AM  on September 13 
	[25 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

I don't think you're prudish. But I know he's an inconsiderate ass for not respecting your concerns. You should examine carefully how much more of your life you should spend with him.posted by infinitewindow at 1:35 AM  on September 13 
	[7 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Yeah, he's deliberately being a prick - he's gaslighting you for a start. And people who are decent apologise immediately with no great debate about it. DTMFA.posted by heyjude at 1:39 AM  on September 13 
	[13 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

You're right; he's wrong.

 I think that type of dancing is something you do anticipating naked sexual contact or at the very least, getting a stranger’s phone number. 

Um, yeah. I'm 21 and even I know this isn't just a great technical dance move that serves any other purpose.

He said I should dance like this with his friends too. 

He sounds like kind of an asshole.posted by lhude sing cuccu at 1:41 AM  on September 13 
	[5 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Yep. Sounds fishy.

Sadly for you, "blowing up" with indignation is the classic response when someone is seeking to deflect attention away from stuff they are hiding.

It's not that good between you two, anyway? Dump him. He doesn't seem worth the continued effort.posted by jbenben at 1:42 AM  on September 13 
	[7 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

I used to grind with my entirely-platonic male friends (like "I threw myself at them and they turned me down" kind of platonic), so I think he's part-right. On the other hand, he doesn't sound like he's compatible with you.posted by muddgirl at 1:44 AM  on September 13 
	[4 favorites +]
	 [!] Other [1/2]: ·=»

(I mean he's part-right in that sometimes platonic friends do this. Whether or not his friendships are platonic is outside my ability to know.)posted by muddgirl at 1:46 AM  on September 13 
	[1 favorite +]
	 [!] Other [2/2]: «=·

Wait, so your boyfriend acted in a way that made you deeply uncomfortable, and when you brought it up with him (no matter how you did it), he first blew up at you (defensive) and then told you that you should be behaving that way too (beginner's gaslighting)?

You're not being prudish, but that's not what this is about. You have fundamentally different values, and when that is combined with a lack of empathy on one side, the other side, or both, it's not going to work. End it soon.posted by juniperesque at 1:47 AM  on September 13 
	[10 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

It sounds like you're already bored of him outside of this issue, so I think you should break up with him because this sounds awful.  

I would mind very much if my boyfriend did anything near what you're describing.  It would make my heart sink into my stomach and I would consider it a major violation, even if it didn't cause a problem with the women and their own relationships.  It would be a dealbreaker for me.posted by aabbbiee at 1:48 AM  on September 13 
	[1 favorite +]
	 [!] No other comments.

I don't think you're being all that prudish, and even if you were, he doesn't really respect how you feel. Do what you want with that.posted by zombieflanders at 1:49 AM  on September 13 
	[1 favorite +]
	 [!] No other comments.

I agree the dancing is unusual, but I can imagine that some friend groups are more flirty and touchy than others and maybe this is just a collision of values that can be overcome.  But if this was really as innocent as he claimed, he might have warned you, asked you how you felt about it, and made it something you experienced together.  In fact the defensive blow-up suggests to me that he may have been deliberately provoking you, pushing a boundary to see what would happen, and then pouncing on you once you predictably pushed back.  Notice how the discussion began about your feelings after being ignored all night, but is now about how you are restricting his freedoms.  Interesting how that happens, huh?posted by PercussivePaul at 1:49 AM  on September 13 
	[3 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

The thing with him saying stuff along the lines of "everybody I know does this," is that he's normalizing the behavior and in doing so invalidating your feelings about the matter. "What I do is okay, and you can't be offended," is not the stance you take with someone you respect. He's not considering your feelings here, and indeed he's suggesting you are the one who ought to change and be more sexual. Like you're at fault, like you're a prude. No man should ever make you feel that way.

I'm not saying it's abnormal or wrong to sexy-dance with people when you're in a relationship -- so long as the relationship specifically allows for such behavior. But that's a decision that two people make together, calmly and rationally, not something that can be declared unilaterally after the fact. 

Trust your instincts. You do know what naughty looks like. Now decide what you're going to do about it.posted by brina at 1:51 AM  on September 13 
	[9 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Am I a silly prude or is my boyfriend's dancing inappropriate?

External categorizations don't matter.  What matters is what you want from your relationship and whether your relationship is working for you.

Personally, this would be a deal breaker for me if I were in your shoes, and I am in my 20s.posted by Inspector.Gadget at 1:53 AM  on September 13 
	[5 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

I used to dance like this with my male friends who were coupled, when I was both single and coupled. 

Key factor: neither my partner nor my dancemates partners minded. If any of them had, it would have stopped. Getting to grind on my platonic friends is not really a hill I am up for dying on. 

Other thing: he doesn't pay attention to you there? Yeah, that's odd and kind of insulting. 

I'd be over it, and over him.posted by gaspode at 1:55 AM  on September 13 
	[5 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

To quote Vincent Vega, "Would you give a guy a foot massage?"    Would he get all bumpy and grindy with one of his male friends?

And even if he would, well, I think he 