skip to main content

	
	
	    MetaFilter
	    AskMeFi
	    Projects
	    Music
	    Jobs
	    Podcast
	    IRL
	    MetaTalk
	 
	
	September 9, 2012 1:11 AM 
	
	
	 
	      Home
	      FAQ
	      Archives
	      Tags
	      Popular
		Best Of
	      Random
	 
	
	 
	 New Question
	    My Profile
	    Preferences
	    Recent Activity
	    Favorites
	 
	
	welcome back urbanwhaleshark |  | logout








Tags:

dating
relationships


		
    



			




Denial is not a river...
September 8, 2012 8:50 PM    Subscribe
What do you do when the guy is In Complete Denial over his behavior with another woman?



 Guy is completely and blatantly slobbering over another woman. It's totally obvious in both his body language and his conversations with her. But he won't admit it. A typical conversation is something like this:

You're drooling over her.

No, I'm not.

There's drool on your chin spilling onto the table.

No, there isn't.

He talks to her almost every day, asking her tons of questions about her life, what books she's read, whether she has any boyfriends.

You just asked her if she had any boyfriends, and when she said no, you lit up like a Christmas tree.

That's a perfectly normal question for one friend to ask another, and no, I didn't.

I even tried using taz's great advice, where I tried to say "your behavior is wrong, you may not see it but you'll just have to trust me on this." It didn't work.

You guys were talking about weightlifting at the gym the other day, comparing arm muscles, and you grabbed her arm to feel it.

That was a gesture of friendship.

You invited her on a lunchtime walk, and complimented her new toenail polish. 

That was a gesture of friendship.

[from taz, verbatim] You don't have to recognize or understand or even acknowledge the dynamic of what is happening here, but you have to trust that I do, and you have to do what is needed to protect us from threat/trouble from this area.

What area? What threat?

This has been going on for more than a year, and it's driving me crazy. Whenever I try to say "if you don't want to go out with her, then stop acting like you do," he'll just say, "I'm not acting like I do. How am I doing that?" And we'll get back into wrangling over specific details like the drool on the table. 

I feel like he's gaslighting me, but if I were to say that, he'd just say, "but I'm not doing anything wrong." I can't tell whether he's just in denial about his feelings, or whether it just feels normal to him to drool over what is pretty, and therefore he genuinely doesn't see anything wrong with it. But I would like to talk about it.

I know that one answer is DTMFA, but I'd like to at least have an honest conversation first. But it's hard to have an honest conversation when he's got such a wall built up around the subject. So, what can I say to him that will break through the wall?

(We're all in our late 40s, nobody involved is married.)

posted by sockerpup to human relations (28 answers total)     
[add to favorites]
 3 users marked this as a favorite
[!] No other comments.



There are a couple of things that are unclear here that I think we need to give sensible answers:

- What is your relationship to this guy and this girl? Is this your boyfriend/girlfriend? Are they platonic friends of yours?

- Has the girl ever expressed discomfort with this attention, or is the problematic part coming from some other angle?

It makes a really big difference whether you're trying to defend her from actions she's uncomfortable with vs. actions you are uncomfortable with vs. trying to get your monogamous partner to knock it off with the attention to another woman.posted by restless_nomad at 8:54 PM  on September 8 
	[3 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Well, I went through this with a guy. All of us adults, sitting at a table, and him stroking her arm or leg, and I was like WTF dude? And eventually I worked out that he didn't want to be with me, despite being committed and living together and then getting married, he had only done it under pressure from his family.

And it was gaslighting yeah, he was trying to cover his skeevy ass. There was no open relationship agreement, and I was right: he was picking up other women and flaunting it in front of me. And then telling me I was imagining it! But yeah, the stroking other women in front of me was sucky, and inviting women into my house who cornered me to have a threesome which I had not agreed to was even more sucky.

I'd say get out now before it becomes more controlling, as I got beat up and shoved around because I found him out.posted by Marie Mon Dieu at 9:00 PM  on September 8 
	[4 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Assuming you're reading his behavior accurately, and he's in denial the way you describe, you won't get that honest conversation. He either wants to believe he's not drooling over this woman, or he doesn't want you to think he is, evidence to the contrary be damned.posted by Rykey at 9:02 PM  on September 8 
	[1 favorite +]
	 [!] No other comments.

"Dude, you've been doing this for a year and it's pissing me off. If you continue, I will walk. Understand?"posted by zippy at 9:03 PM  on September 8 
	[5 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Unless you post a followup that provides extra clarification that renders my present thoughts on this whole debacle moot, here's what I think.

When a partner goes out of their way to a) interact with another person in a flirty fashion, b) deny any wrongdoing, and c) continue aforementioned behavior for more than a year, that partner is no longer worthy of your time or energy, and no matter how much you want a logical, reasonable explanation for why they are doing what they are doing, you will categorically and most emphatically NEVER GET IT. Never. This is because their behavior is irrational, illogical, and downright rude, and they clearly believe that they are in the right no matter what reasonable points you send their way. There is no reasoning with somebody who can cycle through a, b, and c regularly without guilt or shame.

DTMF and don't look back.posted by These Birds of a Feather at 9:03 PM  on September 8 
	[6 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

I feel like he's gaslighting me

 But it's hard to have an honest conversation when he's got such a wall built up around the subject. So, what can I say to him that will break through the wall?

"Life is too short to spend it with someone who clearly would rather be with someone else, and doesn't have the fortitude to admit it.  Goodbye."posted by ambrosia at 9:03 PM  on September 8 
	[10 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Because it's been over a year any chance of his acknowledging his behavior as flirtatious seems very slim. Either he doesn't see it the way you do or he is unwilling to admit the truth to you. I don't see why that would change at thia point if it hasn't already. I get that you want an 'honest conversation' but he's having the only conversation he's willing to have. It could be the truth. Still, if this is something that upsets you personally (it isn't clear), a year is definitely long enough time to wait, especially if you think he is gaslighting you.posted by marimeko at 9:07 PM  on September 8 
	[+]
	 [!] No other comments.

Is there literal drool? Your question has four mentions of "drool" and it seems unlikely that there's been actual escaping saliva, which makes me wonder if you haven't been inquiring after this, and overblowing whatever is going on, in a way that would indeed make many people (1) feel ashamed/silly, (2) knee-jerk denial to distance themselves from something you've framed as rather pathetic. But I also don't know how to answer without the context... If you are this person's supposed romantic partner, did they ever, do they ever, behave with you as they do with this person? If no, is there any agreed-upon definition of the relationship or are you just "hanging out"?posted by kmennie at 9:08 PM  on September 8 
	[6 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

Keep your feedback focused on how his behavior appears to you and how it affects you. 
When you attempt to tell him what his motives and intent are, of course he's going to tell you you're wrong, because only he knows what he's really thinking and you're basing your accusations on conjecture.
Tell him that his actions are upsetting you and that only him stopping it will change that. If he cares about your feelings more than his new 'friendship' then he'll stop. If not, you'll know where you stand.posted by rocket88 at 9:11 PM  on September 8 
	[3 favorites +]
	 [!] No other comments.

but I'd like to at least have an honest conversation first. 

Magic and time travel are the answers you need. 

Magic, because making him see (or admit) that he is actually doing the things you observe will require superhuman forces. 

Time travel, because this won't happen anytime soon. Not today. Not tomorrow. Probably not even next month. I'm guessing years. Set the clock to 2025 and let us know. 

In all seriousness, you have done everything you can. A big, huge part of what I learned in therapy is that no matter how well I utilize the skills I've learned, no matter how much I practice and how patient and calm and mindful I am, sometimes I will come across a conversation partner who is unwilling or unable to participate in good faith. And so I pass this on to you:

You are not doing anything wrong. You have tried very diligently to make this problem be less of a problem. It didn't work. Allow me an analogy. 
"My house is on fire. I threw a heavy blanket on the initial flames. I used three fire extinguishers aimed at the base of the flames. The fire department came and has turned their hoses onto the flames. I know that for my safety, I can leave. But first, I want to really try some firefighting techniques before I abandon this. What should I do?"

OMFG RUN!!!posted by bilabial at 9:11 PM  on September 8 
	[9 favorites +]
	 [!] No other c